# How To Break Into Tech Industry Without a Tech Degree
This post highlights my experience with breaking into the information security industry without having a tech degree.

Breaking into the tech industry, especially into information security, can feel overwhelming at times. Even with all the resources available online, it just seems as if everyone has so much more knowledge and experience than you. Now pursuing this, coming from a non-tech background, can seem nearly impossible.

I was about the begin my senior year of my civil engineering Bachelor's degree when I decided I wanted to pursue a career in cybersecurity. My primary motivators were; not having to stand out in the sun all day (as I would've had to do in my current civil engineering role). I enjoyed learning about cybersecurity, and I wanted to pursue a career that was more fast-paced and required lifelong learning. With that in mind, I began learning more about information security and started to study for the CompTIA Security+ exam. According to what I had been told, this exam was a way to prove to employers that you knew the fundamentals when it came to Security and could help me get an entry-level role.

I was completely new to learning about information security, so I spent months learning and understanding each concept mentioned in study guides and practice exams. While challenging, on top of working on finishing my civil engineering degree, I made it my mission to pass the exam before I graduated. I spent countless hours doing thousands of practice problems and simulation questions preparing for the exam. At many times, I felt doubts if I could even secure a position without the "correct" background. Pursuing civil engineering or even environmental engineering seemed so easy at that point because of my educational experience. But I had decided what I wanted so I couldn't back down now. I studied for the Security + certification and took it in early March. I was sure that with this certification, I would be able to find a job quickly.

Unfortunately, that was not the case! The coronavirus soon after closed my university campus and had started affecting the job market. Although there are many IT jobs in DC/Northern Virginia area where I am located, many of the positions I had recently applied to began informing me that the position had been closed due to the pandemic. There was not much I could do about a pandemic, so I continued to apply and focused on graduating.

I began receiving the occasional call with recruiters, but nothing seemed to go past the initial screening. The biggest shock I received was when a recruiter called me for a prescreening interview. I informed her about my engineering background, certifications, and a few college-level programming courses I had taken in the past. Also making sure to include my self taught knowledge about security fundamentals. She then told me that without an IT or Computer Science degree, I would NEVER land a job in information technology and instead look for civil engineering or GIS-related positions. But that was far from what I wanted to do with my career. She then continued to invalidate the certification that I spent months studying for! I was devastated and cried immediately following the call. I had spent almost a full year studying, learning, and applying to infosec positions only to hear that my hard work was for nothing.

I had one motto for this year. That was to be relentless. No matter what I wanted to focus my energy on, I would be relentless and not stop until I achieved what I had set my mind on. I took what the recruiter said as a challenge to prove her, and everyone else that doubted me, wrong. I began learning more about static and dynamic malware analysis. I set up my virtual home lab and practiced using Linux, and downloading malware onto a virtual machine and analyzing its behavior, learning more about what common steps cybersecurity professionals went through when identifying different malware types. I also applied to a Master's program in IT/cybersecurity, which I am currently enrolled in.

I learned so much through online resources, specifically YouTube, that my friend and I then created a YouTube channel (CyberNoob) to share this knowledge. The best way to know when you have genuinely learned something is to teach it to someone else. While I have no hands-on experience in cybersecurity, my friend is an experienced penetration tester, so he created videos on topics that even I could use to learn from.

This was the turning point for me. I began learning more by following the tutorials explained on my very own YouTube channel. I then received a call for an interview. They asked me if I had experience using Nessus. Luckily, the CyberNoob channel had just posted a new video on how to use Tenable Nessus to perform vulnerability scans on a virtual host machine. I was able to explain my experience with following along with that tutorial to demonstrate my (limited) knowledge. I progressed to the next interview stage and soon after received a job offer for an associate security position!

The company and individuals that decided to hire me did not look at whether I had an IT-related degree. They looked at the knowledge I possessed and my drive to learn more about cybersecurity. They didn't feel as though my engineering degree was holding me back and instead felt like it brought in more value because of my diverse background, even though it was still in STEM.

Through my experience, breaking into tech is entirely possible if you have the discipline to work for it. Without the foundational knowledge, others learn in their tech-based degrees; you must be willing to put in the hours to learn and practice what you may be lacking. Some companies will ignore your resume if you do not have the degrees they are looking for, but the right company for you will see beyond that and see the effort you have put in towards self-learning. They will want to invest their resources into hiring you if you possess the knowledge they seek for that role.

To everyone that is looking to switch into tech, don't give up. Many will doubt your career change and think that it isn't possible without an IT degree. But if there's one thing I've learned this year, never give up on yourself and dream big. If it is your goal to pursue a tech career, prepare to be a lifelong self-learner, and know that it is entirely possible to do so!
